Good afternoon.
Welcome to session number 414, Building,
Archiving, and Submitting Your App.
You've probably spent most of
this week learning how to take
advantage of the great new features
in iOS 6 and Mountain Lion while
developing your application.
So I thought that this afternoon
we would do something completely
different and talk about distribution,
how you can get your software
product into your customers' hands.
And since I realize that I am all
that stands between you and free food,
we're going to keep it to three things.
Distributing your application
outside of the App Store using a
new technology called Developer ID.
Then we're going to talk about how
you can take your application and
distribute it in the App Store,
taking advantage of all the
features and technologies available
to both you and your customers.
And then we'll talk about
some best practices on iOS,
as well as some new features
that are available in the
App Store this year in iOS 6.
So let's get started by talking
about how to distribute your
application outside the App Store.
The App Store offers you the
opportunity to take advantage of a
number of incredible technologies
that exist on our platforms.
One of them is security.
But we don't think that should be
something that you can only take
advantage of in the App Store.
And to that end, we've introduced a new
technology called Gatekeeper.
Customers of the App Store have
the advantage of knowing that the
software that they receive from the
App Store comes directly from you.
And with Gatekeeper and Developer ID,
they can do the same with your software
that comes from outside the App Store.
Gatekeeper is turned on by
default in Mountain Lion,
and it's designed to protect your
users from malicious applications.
Now, this sounds a little scary,
but in reality,
this is actually a problem.
Anyone with access to your web
server can modify an application
that you created and do whatever
they want on your user systems,
and that's bad.
So Gatekeeper allows you to make
sure that the application your
customer is running is exactly
what you intended it to be.
By default, Gatekeeper allows you to run
applications that were obtained
either from the Mac App Store or
that were signed with a Developer ID.
If neither of those is true,
your customer will see
something like this.
How do you make sure your customer
doesn't see something like this?
You take advantage of what
we've been talking about,
Developer ID.
So what is it?
A Developer ID identifies you as
being someone who's trusted by Apple.
And by virtue of the fact
that you're trusted by Apple,
the OS trusts you,
and your software can run freely.
And like other technologies
for distribution,
it has built-in support in Xcode so
you can share your application with
your customers right from the IDE.
Now we're going to talk about how
to take advantage of this when
you're ready to distribute your app,
starting with how to
obtain a Developer ID.
If you've previously had
experience distributing your
software through App Stores,
this will be something that's similar,
but we're going to run through
it now in case you haven't.
From the Organizer,
you can choose this option
from the Editor menu,
which is to refresh from
the Developer Portal.
And once you do that,
Xcode will communicate
with the Developer Portal,
figure out all the assets that
you're entitled to based on
what teams you're a member of,
and ask you if you want to download them.
Naturally, it will say yes.
And then once you do,
it'll ask if you want to export them.
And this is something that's
actually very important,
because your Developer ID is
like your Social Security number.
Anyone who has it can pretend to be you.
And if you don't have it,
you can't prove that you are you.
So it's important to make sure
you have a copy of it somewhere
that's kept safe and secure.
And as an added convenience,
if you want to set up a
second Mac for development,
your exported developer identity
and profile is a single document
that you can open inside of
Xcode and get up and running.
No need to go to keychain access,
no need to download
things from the portal.
You can just double-click it and go.
So once you've got that,
you can take a look at what
you've actually obtained.
And these are the identities that
are associated with your team.
And they come in, for Mac developers,
two categories:
those that begin with Mac,
which are what you would use for
your Mac apps for submissions,
and those that begin with Developer ID,
which is what I'm going
to talk about right now.
And there are two flavors:
Developer ID application,
and this is an identity that
you use to sign your .apps,
either that you distribute in
an archive or on a disk image,
and then Developer ID installer,
which is what you use to sign
the installer that you use to
give your customers their .apps.
And it's important to realize this,
because, you know,
installers are actually executable code.
So there's a possibility
for tampering there.
So it's important to make
sure that that's signed.
And once you have these,
it's often useful to take advantage of
them while developing your application.
It's useful to test what your
customers are actually going
to receive by codesigning your
application during development and
working with it under a debugger.
Similarly, codesigned applications are
treated differently by the
OS in a few circumstances,
like when they actually are launched.
So it's often useful to profile your
application as if it was codesigned.
So to actually produce this,
what you can do is go
to your project editor,
and the summary panel offers you the
option to codesign the application.
Checking this box will cause Xcode to
automatically select the appropriate
identity for your application.
And usually this is correct.
However, if you run a bunch of teams or
you're doing something special,
you can actually override this
yourself inside of the build settings
editor just by going to the code
setting identity build setting
and choosing a different one.
When you're ready to
distribute your application,
you can produce something called
an archive from within Xcode.
And this is a really fundamental
and powerful feature that
we introduced with Xcode 4.
It lets you package up your application,
its symbols,
and some information that Xcode knows
how to read into a single bundle
that the organizer can deal with.
And from that archive,
you're ready to distribute it,
submit it to the stores,
validate it to make sure it's
ready to go to the stores.
These are all things
we'll talk about later,
but you can do them all from an
archive from within the organizer.
So once we've created
one of these archives,
which we're going to show
you how to do in a minute,
you can choose to distribute it.
And to distribute it, in this case,
we're going to choose to distribute it
as a Developer ID signed application.
And once we do,
we'll be prompted to save it
someplace on the file system,
and then we can distribute it to
our customers however we choose.
That's one security feature
that's available to customers
of the Mac App Store.
And as I said earlier,
we don't want those to be features
that are unique to the store.
So to talk about two other features
related to security present in the
Mac App Store that are available to
your Developer ID signed applications,
I'd like to introduce up Yevgeny.
Good afternoon.
As Mac and iOS users,
we love to brag that our
platforms are really secure.
And as developers,
we really want to make sure that our
products don't contain any security
vulnerabilities on these platforms.
And a really good way to do that is
to take advantage of a technology that
we have called Application Sandboxing.
The word sandbox is actually really
appropriate here because it means
that your app has the freedom to do
what it wants in its own little space.
But it's walled off from doing
anything malicious or damaging to
the system in case it misbehaves.
When you launch an app
with sandboxing enabled,
the security framework prevents
it from doing a few things.
You can't access the file system
outside of your own sandbox directory.
You can't connect to or
host any network servers.
You can't access devices
such as the camera,
microphone, USB devices or printers.
And you can't access the user's
personal data like contacts,
calendars, and location services.
And what this means is that it's
a great benefit to our users.
Because even if a bug is found at
some point in your software that
creates an exploitable vulnerability,
then the potential for damage is
limited to just the files that are
created by the user in your app.
And Xcode makes it simple for you
to take advantage of app sandboxing.
All you have to do is go into
your app's target editor,
click on the summary pane,
and enable entitlements.
Then click enable app sandboxing.
Of course, as soon as you do that,
you're soon likely to run into the
situation where you want to do something
that sandboxing won't let you do.
Let's say you want to use
the microphone or the camera.
Fortunately, sandboxing isn't an
all-or-nothing proposition.
You can take advantage of something
called entitlements to allow
fine-grained access to system resources.
An entitlement is just a permission
to use a resource in the system,
like the microphone or location services.
And in this way,
you can take advantage of the
principle of least privilege,
meaning that your app only has
permission to do what it needs to
do in order to get its job done,
and it's not allowed
to touch anything else.
And you can take advantage of
entitlements in Xcode just as easily
by going back to the target editor
and when you enable sandboxing,
you'll notice that there are check
boxes and drop downs to select which
entitlements your app wants to use.
And once you make those changes,
then Xcode will create a property list
file called the Entitlements file.
It'll populate it with those keys and
then package it into your app bundle.
Then when the app is launched,
the security framework will
read it and grant your app
access to those entitlements.
And that's how easy it is to add a
whole layer of security into your app.
So now how do we create an app
that's signed by Developer ID?
There are four steps to this.
The first is to actually obtain
the Developer ID from Apple.
Once you have it,
you want to configure your
project to use code signing.
Then enable sandboxing and
entitlements in your app.
And finally, build and distribute it.
So let's actually see this in action.
I'd like to show you a demo of how
we can sign an app with Developer ID.
So let's say we've already
got an app that's pre-built.
And my app happens to be a recipe viewer.
And I want to open it up
and take a quick look at it.
We'll go ahead and run it.
And there it is.
On my left here I've got a
sidebar with all of my recipes,
and I can click through them,
and I can take a look,
I can see the description
for how to make it,
and I've got a nice image of
how the food is supposed to
turn out if I make it properly.
And this app looks great to me.
So I want to package it up and
I want to ship it to developers.
Well, right away,
there's already a couple
of problems with this.
If I take the app that Xcode just
built and I put it on a website
and have people download it,
then anybody could
download it and modify it.
They could tamper with it.
They could inject malicious code
into it and then redistribute
it to unsuspecting users.
What's worse is that the users will just,
they won't know what happened.
They won't know they're
even running this malware.
At best, they'll get a panel on Lion and
older systems that says,
"This app has been
downloaded from the internet.
Are you sure you want to launch
it?" And most users will end up
clicking "Yes." And on Mountain Lion,
we've gotten more strict with Gatekeeper.
And so your second problem is that,
by default, if a user tries to launch
your app on Mountain Lion,
the system just won't let it run.
It'll deny it.
It'll pop up that panel
that Rob showed you.
And that's great news from
a security standpoint,
but it's not so great from
a usability standpoint.
So what's the solution?
Well, you just have to use
Developer ID to sign your app.
So I want to show you how to
use Developer ID right now.
Let's close up our app.
And the first step is going to
be to request the ID from Apple.
You do that from the organizer.
In the Devices tab,
click on Provisioning Profiles.
Now, if you've already made
a developer account,
that's great.
You need to have one to use this.
If not,
go and sign up for a developer account.
But let's say you've already got one.
So now what you can do is go
to the Editor menu and click
Refresh from Developer Portal.
You sign in.
Save your password.
And then Xcode will connect to
the portal and check for which
developer identities you're eligible.
And if it finds that there
are certain identities that
you haven't yet downloaded,
Xcode will offer to download
and install them for you.
And that's what it's
doing here right now.
And there are a few different
kinds of developer identities.
And Xcode will ask me once for each kind.
These include the
Developer ID application and installer
identities that Rob mentioned earlier,
as well as Mac App Store submission
installer and development identities
that we're going to talk about later.
So Xcode here is asking me
once for each type of identity.
So I'm just going to
go ahead and say yes,
submit the request.
And once that's done,
Xcode is being really helpful here and
offering to export my developer profile.
And the developer profile is a way to
package up all of your provisioning
profiles and development identities
and private keys into one file.
The reason you want to do that
is so that you can back it
all up into a secure location.
It's really important that you
hang on to these credentials and
don't let anybody else have them,
because if you lose them,
It'll be really painful for you.
You're going to have to
set up a new Developer ID.
You won't have access to your old one.
You won't be able to
submit new apps under it.
And it'll be painful for
both you and your customers.
So we really want to stress that
you should export your profile
and keep it safe and secure.
So I'm going to do this now.
Give it a nice name.
Save it to My Desktop and
give it a password.
Again,
make sure that the password is secure.
Because if anybody gets
access to your profile,
they can have your identity,
which means they can do anything
on the App Store that you can,
and that's bad.
So here it is saved on My Desktop.
And if you ever want to do
this again in the future,
you can go ahead in the organizer,
in the sidebar, click on your team.
Go to the Editor menu,
and under Developer Profile,
choose Export Developer Profile.
And as long as we're here,
I want to point out a couple
of things that you're seeing.
When you click on your
team in the organizer,
it'll show you a list of all
of the identities which you've
downloaded from this team.
Notice that only one of these
identities has my name on it.
That's because this is the only
identity that's tied to me personally.
The other identities are
shared by the team at large.
Also notice that there is a green
checkmark or badge next to each identity.
That means that this identity is
valid and you can use it to code sign.
If you ever encounter a situation
where that's not the case,
where there is no badge,
it means there is no private
key installed and that identity
can't be used to code sign.
Some of you might have the
situation where none of your
identities have a badge.
And this usually happens when
you have a couple of machines
that you're developing on.
You'll start a project on one machine.
You'll submit your code to a repository,
download your Developer ID,
and submit apps, no problem.
But as soon as you take that code
and download it to another machine,
You could forget to move
your private key onto it.
And then, for some reason,
you'll find that you're unable to sign.
Well, I'm telling you now that
that's because you probably
just forgot your private key,
and so go ahead and put
it on your other machine.
But anyway, let's get back to our app.
We now have our Developer ID.
It's been downloaded.
And so we could, if we wanted to,
sign the app with it and distribute it.
But if we did that,
we'd be releasing a product
that has not been tested.
It's a different product than
we've been developing because a
Developer ID will sign your app.
It'll codesign your binary,
whereas by default,
your development binary
will not be codesigned.
And so to the system,
these appear different.
And so when you're testing
and debugging and developing,
you really want to be running the same
thing you're going to be shipping.
So we suggest that you enable
codesigning while you're developing.
You can do that in Xcode by
going to your target editor,
Summary Pane,
and clicking on Codesign Application.
And now I want you to take
a moment and ask yourself,
well, why do I want to use a
Developer ID in the first place?
The answer is you want to create
a product that's secure and that
gives your users confidence that
you're protecting their data.
More and more, every day,
we're seeing users be more
concerned about security.
And they expect that developers will be
taking these concerns very seriously.
They are protecting their
data 100% of the time.
And as I mentioned,
sandboxing is a great way to add a
whole layer of security to your app.
And so we strongly encourage
all of you to enable it.
And I'll show you how that's done.
Back in your target editor,
enable Entitlements.
When you do that, Xcode will helpfully
enable sandboxing as well.
And also notice that the
Entitlements file has been created
for us in the Project Navigator.
I can click on it, examine its contents,
and here I see it's just
an ordinary property list.
It's got the key for
sandboxing already in there.
And I go back to my target editor
and I notice that there are all
these options for entitlements.
And let's say that I want to
add a couple of features to
my app where I use the camera,
for example,
to take photos of my great recipes
after I finish cooking them.
And I also want to enable printing
so that I can give a copy of
my recipe to my grandmother who
refuses to get internet access.
So I can do that by clicking
the appropriate check boxes.
And so now the app is
ready to be shipped.
It's got the security
layer of sandboxing,
it's got the appropriate entitlements,
we've tested it with code signing,
and so now it's totally
ready to be shipped.
So finally, let's distribute it
with the Developer ID.
We do that by going to the
product menu and choosing Archive.
The app will compile and build,
and it'll appear in my organizer.
I can now click Distribute,
and I'll choose
Export Developer ID Signed Application.
On the next page,
I'll choose the Developer ID that
I'm using for my team.
And if it doesn't appear here,
just click Refresh Developer ID.
Finally, on the next page,
I'll be able to save it.
And before I save it,
Xcode actually needs to
codesign my binary with the
private key that I'm using.
And since it's the first
time that I'm using this key,
the key chain is going to ask me to
confirm that I really want to use it.
And so I'm going to go ahead
and allow Xcode to use it.
And we save the app to our desktop.
And there it is.
It's ready to go.
It's fully signed and
fully authenticated,
and people can go and download it
and feel really safe and secure.
And that's how easy it is to
distribute an app using Developer ID.
So now I'd like to invite my colleague
Rob back to talk about how to distribute
an app using the Mac App Store.
So that's how you distribute an
application outside of the App Store.
But like I said earlier,
there are tons of great features
that you can take advantage of
and provide to your customers if
your application is in the store.
Things like iCloud,
Apple's push notification service
for responding to things happening
while your application isn't running.
Game Center, so that if you have a game,
your customers can actually
play with their friends
regardless of where they are.
And in-app purchase,
if you'd like to provide
additional content in your
application to your customers.
Submitting to the App Store is a process
that's well integrated in Xcode and used
by thousands of developers every day.
And while Gatekeeper works out of the box
for applications distributed through the
App Store or signed with Developer ID,
users of the OS can actually tighten
the security of the application.
So if you want to distribute an
application outside of the Mac App Store,
you can do that by using the
security threshold and say,
"I only want applications that are
coming from the Mac App Store."
So distributing here is the way to
guarantee that your software will run
on all of your customers' systems.
So we just built an application.
What would it take to
get it in the App Store?
Well,
we're going to talk about three things
today-- the app's bundle ID and how it
relates to the app ID you set up when
creating your application in the portal,
Sandboxing,
and some entitlements that we use
for App Store specific technologies,
and how to make sure your application
is technically ready and all set
up to be submitted to the store.
Let's start off by talking
about your bundle ID.
This is represented by your
application's Info.plist as
the CFBundle identifier key.
And by convention,
it's something that we want to
be unique throughout the system.
A lot of our APIs expect that.
It should match your app ID that you've
created in your provisioning profile.
And if you have an application that you
distribute outside the App Store and
have turned on sandboxing for it,
it's a really great thing for your
customers if you have the same
bundle ID for your application that
comes from both the App Store and
from outside the App Store.
If they're buying two copies of your app,
this guarantees that they
can share data between them.
If we talk about sandboxing,
sandboxing is required for
distribution through the App Store.
And if you,
when we go back and think about the
technologies that are available to
our customers through the App Store,
one of them is iCloud.
And there are some entitlements
you can set up for that for using
either the Key Values Store or for
custom document and data containers.
Submitting your app is something
that you want to take seriously.
And it would be nice to know
that you've actually set up your
project in a way that it will be
accepted and appear on the store.
And Xcode has a workflow to help
you make sure that that's the case.
And we call it validation.
It makes sure that things like
your application's copyright
string is set properly,
that you have a category
specified for your app,
things that are essential for
being listed on the store,
as well as enforcing some other
policies that are specific to the
Mac App Store or to the iOS App Store.
And we actually update these
over the web to make sure that
they are exactly what you will be
tested against when you submit.
And to do that,
once you've created an archive,
you can actually validate it
from right within the organizer.
It's the button right
on top of distribute.
And you can choose to validate against
the Mac App Store's requirements.
And now, if you don't pass validation,
Xcode will tell you about it,
and you can go and fix up the warning or
the error and revalidate and then submit.
To talk about some of the technologies
that are available only in the
Mac App Store and how you can take
advantage of them in your app,
I'd now like to invite up Itai.
Thanks, Rob, and good afternoon,
everybody.
As Rob mentioned,
when you choose to distribute
your app on the App Store,
you get to take advantage
of some great technologies.
iCloud, Game Center, In-App Purchase,
and Push Notifications are
services that customers love.
And if you take advantage
of them in your apps,
then customers will love your apps
even more than they already do.
So before I move on,
I just want to point out that everything
I'll be talking about is applicable
to both the iOS and Mac App Stores,
with a few exceptions that
I'll point out as I go along.
So here's a brief overview of
what I'll be talking about.
Now, when you set down the path
of building an App Store app,
one of the things you should know
about is provisioning profiles.
So I'll tell you a little bit about what
they are and how to create and use them.
In addition,
one of the big new changes in
Xcode is the addition of support
for in-app purchase content.
With the new version of Xcode,
you can create, package,
and submit in-app purchase content
from directly within the IDE.
And if you've used
in-app purchase before,
you'll find this greatly
streamlines your workflow.
So a lot of what I'm going to show
you involving provisioning profiles
involves performing administrative tasks
like creating provisioning profiles,
registering devices and app IDs.
And depending on how your team is set up,
you may not necessarily have
every team member have access to
perform these administrative tasks.
There are three roles that you can
assign to each individual on your team:
member, admin, and agent.
Now, most of the people on your
team will probably be members.
This is typically all of the development
engineers or testers on your team.
And people who are assigned the member
role can download provisioning profiles,
request certificates,
and also obtain software assets
like pre-release SDKs and
beta releases of the tools.
So if you think of your team
with a file system analogy,
team members essentially
have read-only access.
They can download and use
your development assets,
but they can't create them themselves.
In order to do most of
what I'm going to show you,
you'd have to be an admin.
Now,
admins can manage your team's membership.
They create and approve
certificates for your team members.
They create provisioning profiles and
also register hardware and app IDs.
Finally,
the team agent is the individual who
is the primary contact for your team,
and they're responsible for your team's
membership in the development program.
Most importantly,
they're also the only individual
who can submit applications and can
generate distribution certificates and
distribution provisioning profiles.
Now, if you stop and think
about this for a moment,
that makes a lot of sense because
any software distributed using
these assets reflects on your
organization's identity and reputation.
So you want to make sure that
only responsible individuals
can actually do this.
So what is a provisioning profile?
Now, this is a great topic to talk
about just before the beer bash.
And I take no responsibility if this
drives you to overindulge tonight.
But I'm going to try to make
provisioning profiles as simple
to understand as possible.
They're really not that complicated.
So I like to think of a provisioning
profile as a big blue box.
OK, that's it.
Let's move on.
Just kidding.
Provisioning profiles contain three
things that you need to know about.
The first one is an app ID.
Now the app ID, as Rob mentioned,
is roughly analogous
to a bundle identifier.
And I'll talk about it in a little bit
more detail in a couple more slides.
But right now,
all you need to know is this
is a string that identifies
an app developed by your team.
They also contain a list of certificates.
Now, earlier, Yevgeny showed you how to
generate certificates in Xcode,
and these are essentially the
public-facing half of each of
your developers' identities.
Each developer also has a private key,
which they should keep to themselves
and not share with anybody.
That's why it's called a private key.
The certificate is the public,
shareable half of that,
and each provisioning profile
you create will contain a list
of the developers in your team,
essentially.
Finally, a list of device IDs.
This is probably the
most straightforward one.
Every device that your team uses
in the development process should
be registered on the portal.
All of your Macs and iOS
devices have hardware IDs.
And when you create a
provisioning profile,
it specifies a list of these.
So what do you get once you put
all of these things in a box?
Well, essentially,
you get a provisioning profile which
tells the operating system that an
app signed by the following people
may run on the following devices.
That's essentially the most basic
thing a provisioning profile does.
It tells the operating system under
which circumstances your app can launch.
Now,
it does do a couple additional things.
Most importantly,
it tells the operating system which
services your app should have access to,
and things like iCloud.
And the way it does
that is via the app ID.
So let's talk about app IDs a little bit.
There are two kinds.
The first one is called
an explicit app ID.
And this is probably the
simplest one to understand.
It looks just like a bundle identifier.
So the one you can see on the
screen is com.apple.recipes.
That's the bundle identifier
for the Recipes app that
Yevgeny showed you earlier.
And that's an explicit app ID.
It matches one specific
application developed by our team.
And we can create these
on the developer portal.
We can make as many as we want.
Each explicit app ID needs to be unique.
And if you're going to
use in-app purchase,
game center, or push notifications,
you actually have to create one of these
on the portal before you can use those.
The other kind of App ID is
called a wildcard App ID.
And believe it or not,
it's called that because at the end
of the string is a wildcard character.
I'm sure you didn't see that coming.
The example you see on the screen,
com.apple.*,
essentially will match any application
developed by our team whose bundle
identifier starts with com.apple.
So com.apple.recipes would match.
com.apple.recipes beta would match.
Anything like that.
Now, Xcode creates one of these
automatically for you.
So you may not actually
need to create one yourself.
And these tend to be useful when
you start developing new apps.
You can get off the ground very
quickly without having to configure
anything on the developer portal.
Also, if you're not using any
App Store-specific technologies
or you're only using iCloud,
then you can probably do all of your
development using a wildcard app ID.
So keep that in mind.
OK, so let's say you've decided you
need to create your own app ID.
How do you actually do that?
So you start by logging
into the Developer Portal.
This is actually the version for the Mac.
The iOS one is very similar.
You choose to register a new app ID,
and all you have to do is
fill in these two fields.
You type in a description so you remember
what this app ID is actually for,
and you also type in your
bundle ID search string,
in this case, com.apploadrecipes.
So remember this one,
because I'm going to actually
use this a little bit later.
Once you've done that,
you can enable your app
ID for additional services.
On the Mac,
you'll see checkboxes for iCloud,
Game Center, and push notifications.
Now, this is one difference from iOS.
For iOS,
if you want to use in-app purchase,
you actually have to check
a fourth box for that.
On the Mac, as long as you're using
an explicit app ID,
you can use in-app purchase
in your application.
So in this case, I've enabled iCloud.
So that's all there is
to know about App IDs,
really.
Now,
a few other details about provisioning
profiles that you should be aware
of are that Xcode creates these
team provisioning profiles for you.
And you've probably seen them.
If you're developing for iOS,
there's an iOS team provisioning profile.
If you're developing for the Mac,
there's a Mac team provisioning profile.
These are essentially generic
profiles that Xcode creates for you.
It maintains them for you.
And they'll automatically
contain all of the devices and
certificates that your team uses.
They'll also use a wildcard app ID that
matches any app developed by your team.
So again, you can use these when
you're developing new apps,
get off the ground very quickly.
And for some apps,
this is really all you need.
If you need to create a provisioning
profile with an explicit app ID,
you can do that in Xcode,
and I'll show you how to
do that in a little bit.
And finally, when it's time to distribute
your app on the App Store,
you need to use something called
a Production Provisioning Profile
on the Mac or a Distribution
Provisioning Profile on iOS.
And again, only your team agent can
create and use these.
Now, changing gears a little bit,
in-app purchase.
In the new version of Xcode,
we've added project templates for both
Mac and iOS so that you can create in-app
purchase content directly in the IDE.
All you have to do is create
a new project or add a target
to an existing project,
drag in your resources,
and you can archive, package,
and submit your in-app purchase
content directly from within Xcode.
And I'll show you how to do that,
actually.
In just a moment,
I'll head over to the demo
machine and show you a few things,
including how to enable iCloud,
how to create a provisioning profile,
and then how to submit an app and in-app
purchase content to the App Store.
So let's take a look at that.
So here we are looking at the Recipes
app that Yevgeny showed you earlier.
Now, what you might not know is that this
app uses the iCloud Key Value Store.
Now, before I can actually submit
this app to the App Store,
I need to do a little bit of
work in order to enable that.
If I look at the debug log from
the last time Yevgeny ran the app,
you'll see there's a somewhat
scary-looking error message.
But all it really says is that we
haven't enabled iCloud for our app,
and we're trying to use iCloud.
So how do we do that?
There's a couple steps.
I'll go back to the Target Editor and
show you the first one.
The first step involves turning
on the entitlement within our app.
And I can do that simply by checking
this iCloud Key Value Store checkbox
in the Target Editor.
Okay, that's half of what I need to do,
and that was pretty easy.
Now, the second half actually involves
creating a provisioning profile.
Now, if you'll recall,
there are three things that you need
to have in a provisioning profile.
One is an app ID.
I already created an app ID.
It was the one I showed you in the slide,
so that's all done,
and it's enabled for iCloud.
The second one is a
development certificate.
Well, Yevgeny created that in his demo,
so I already have that.
The third one is a device ID,
so I need to register my device on the
portal before I can create a profile.
So let's do that.
You can do that within Xcode's Organizer.
I'll click on the Organizer
button here in the corner.
Click over to the Devices tab
and select My Mac in the sidebar.
And all I have to do to register
my Mac on the portal is click
this Add to Portal button
on the bottom of the window.
Now my Mac has been registered,
and I can create a provisioning
profile that refers to it.
So let's do that.
In order to do that,
I can click on the Provisioning
Profiles item and click New on
the bottom of the window.
And now all I have to do to create
a profile is fill out this sheet.
So I'll type in a name.
This should be something
descriptive so that you know
what this profile is used for,
especially if you need to update your
app six or 12 months down the line,
it's useful to actually know
which profile you're using.
I'll click on Mac since
this is for a Mac app.
And now I need to select an app ID.
I'll choose the one I created earlier,
which is already enabled for iCloud.
And next, I need to choose the list of
devices and certificates that
I want to include in the profile.
Now, if you're on a larger team,
of course, you'll see a lot more devices
and certificates in this list,
and you can select
just the ones you want,
or you can select all of them.
Now, in this case,
I'm a one-person team with one device,
so I'll just choose
everything and click Finish.
And you'll see that Xcode has
created a profile for me on the
portal and downloaded it to my Mac.
In order to use this profile,
I need to first install it on my Mac,
and I can do that simply by dragging
it onto my Mac in the sidebar.
And now if I click on Provisioning
Profiles under my Mac,
you'll see that it's installed.
Great, so now it's ready to use.
Let's go back to my project and
configure it to use my profile.
The way to do that is via the
Code Signing Identity build
setting that Rob showed you.
So I'll click on
Build Settings for my target,
and let's take a look at the
Code Signing Identity build setting.
You can see here that the automatic
profile selector has actually already
chosen the correct identity for me.
I want to use my
Johnny Appleseed identity,
and it's also using my
Recipe's development profile,
which I just created.
But in case that's not
choosing the right thing,
you can also see further down in
the list that Xcode lists all of the
provisioning profiles I have installed,
and all of the identities that are
included in those provisioning profiles.
And I can just choose the
one that I want to use.
Now I'm ready to build and run my app,
and iCloud should be enabled.
So if I go look at the debug log again,
We'll see no scary
error message this time.
Everything is working.
OK, so now I'm ready to submit
my app to the App Store.
Everything looks great.
So I'll start by archiving it,
just like we did for Developer ID.
And the archive will
appear in the organizer.
Now, as Rob mentioned,
one practice that we really
recommend you do is to validate
your app before you submit it.
And you should do this frequently
throughout your development cycle so that
you don't get a nasty surprise when it's
time to submit your app to the App Store.
So let's start off by validating.
And I can do that by
clicking the Validate button,
selecting Mac App Store,
and hitting Next.
Now, in order to validate,
Xcode needs to connect to
iTunes Connect and download
all of the application records
that I've already set up.
So I'll type in my iTunes
Connect credentials,
hit Next.
And now you'll see that Xcode has
downloaded all of my application records.
If you don't see any here,
it might mean that you haven't
actually created one yet,
so you'll want to go do that.
And I can select the code
signing identity that I want
to sign this with and hit Next.
Now, Xcode is going to codesign my
application and upload it for validation.
And once again,
I'm being asked for access because
this is the first time I'm using my
Mac App Store distribution identity.
So since this is an application
developed by some great Apple engineers,
there shouldn't be any validation errors,
right?
But it looks like we do have one.
And the important thing to keep
in mind when this happens is that
this is definitely Yevgeny's fault.
So usually what I do at this point
is type up an angry email and send
it to Yevgeny and his manager.
But since I want to actually show you
how to submit an app to the App Store,
let's go ahead and fix it.
In this case, it looks like we're missing
an application category.
And this is actually really common.
If you're taking a pre-existing app and
you want to submit it to the App Store,
you might not already have a category
set up because you distributed it
through your website previously.
It's also very easy to fix.
So let's click Finish and go
back to the project to fix it.
I'll select my project and return
to the target summary editor.
And you'll see at the very top,
there's a pop-up from which
you can select a category.
So all I have to do is choose
the one that looks right,
in this case, Lifestyle.
and build a new archive because I've
modified my application's Info.plist,
so I need a new archive.
Now I should be ready to
submit to the App Store.
So to do that,
all I do is click Distribute,
select Submit to the Mac App Store,
and hit Next.
Once again, Xcode will want my iTunes
Connect credentials.
This is the same as before.
Again, if you're not seeing
your app record here,
you might have forgotten to create it,
or you might have forgotten to
mark it as ready for upload.
I'll hit Next,
and now my application again is being
codesigned and uploaded to the store.
And once this is done,
I should see a very
nice message that says,
"My app has been submitted."
So let's just give it a few moments.
And there we are.
That's how easy it is to
submit an app from Xcode.
So that's great.
Now my app is available for my customers.
I was able to submit it
from Xcode very easily.
Now I'd like to add some additional
value so that my customers enjoy using
my app even more and keep coming back.
So I can do that by creating
in-app purchase content.
And now with the new version of Xcode,
I can do it very easily.
So let me show you how to do that.
I'll go back to my project
and hit the Add Target button.
When I select Other here under OSX,
I'll see that I have a new
in-app purchase content template.
So all I have to do is hit
Next and give it a name.
And click Finish.
And now Xcode has created a
new target in my project for
my in-app purchase content.
You'll see we have a custom
target summary editor for it,
so I can choose to rename my in-app
purchase content if I'd like,
change its identifier,
or change its content version.
I can also drag some additional
files into this group that's
been created in my project.
But in this case,
I think this is all I need to do.
So I'll go ahead and archive
and submit this to the store.
The first thing I need to do in order to
do that is to select the correct scheme.
When I added the target to my project,
Xcode added a new scheme for me.
So I'll choose that and Archive.
The archive appears in the organizer.
I can click Distribute,
choose Submit In-App Purchase Content,
click Next.
Again, Xcode needs to log into iTunes
Connect and download any records
that I've created because
there's a separate type of record
for in-app purchase content.
So you can see here my
application record is listed,
and the record I created for my
in-app purchase content is available.
And now all I have to do is click Next,
and Xcode will upload my
content to the App Store.
That's all you have to do to
submit in-app purchase content now.
You can do it all from within Xcode.
And we're done.
So now we've shown you how to
distribute applications outside of
the App Store and in the App Store,
and I'd like to invite my colleague,
Rob Marin,
back onto the stage to show you
some iOS application best practices.
Thanks, Itai.
So most of what we just showed you
applies equally to iOS and to MacOS X.
But right now,
we're going to focus exclusively on iOS,
beginning with a new feature
in the App Store for iOS 6,
Application Deltas.
This is something that we've actually
had in the Mac App Store since Lion.
In fact, earlier this week,
we released an update to Xcode
4.3 that was just 97 megabytes.
Gone are the days of needing to
download 4-gigabyte installers
just to get an updated SDK.
Application Update Deltas are fantastic
from the perspective of your customers.
The good news is they're
also fantastic for you.
Deltas are generated from
your application based
on each file's contents,
and they're managed
entirely by the store.
It keeps track of which
versions to publish,
which ones to give to your
customers based on what versions
of the apps they have installed,
and the store takes care
of generating them for you.
All you need to do is submit
your application as normal.
But there are some things you can
do to make sure your application
update delta is as small as possible.
For instance,
if you were to change the name of a file,
the entire file would be
included in the delta.
If you were to change
the name of a directory,
the entire directory's contents
would be included in the delta,
and it would take that much longer for
your customers to download the update.
And if you were to change your
application's name on disk,
all of the application's contents
would end up in the delta,
which would probably lead
to some unhappy customers.
But that only really applies once you're
ready to submit an update to the store.
How do you actually know you're
ready to go live with your update?
For that, we have a process we
call ad hoc distribution,
which most commonly is used for
producing a beta of your application
to provide to your customers to test.
A lot of you work in small teams,
maybe one or two people,
and you don't have a
dedicated quality staff.
Doing a beta test allows you to
make sure that the customers that
matter to you are satisfied with the
state of your application's quality.
It lets you interact directly with them,
obtain feedback,
and respond to them in a rapid fashion.
And it lets your customers feel
like they're directly influencing
the direction of your product.
And as a bonus, it lets you,
before your app actually
goes live on the store,
identify what the weak points and
strong points of it are so you can
start planning your next update.
So today we're going to talk about
some best practices for doing this.
And it's important to know that
we don't want to do a lot of work.
We have fantastic tools,
and we want Xcode to do the work for us.
So we're going to explore how to
take advantage of the Xcode build
system to set up our application beta.
And then we're going to talk
about how to get our beta into our
customers' hands easily and quickly.
So, specifically, we have some goals.
The first is we want our
application to coexist on our
customers' devices alongside the
version shipping in the store.
And to do that,
we're going to take advantage
of the app's bundle ID.
As it turns out,
iOS devices unique installed applications
on the home screen via the bundle ID.
So we're going to provide a different
one for our beta application.
Second,
we want our beta to be something that
can be quickly identified alongside our
shipping application by our customers.
So to do that,
we're going to provide a separate icon.
And keeping in mind our
earlier goal of doing less,
we want Xcode to figure out
which one to produce for us.
And then, of course, we actually want our
customers to test our product.
So we want to make sure we can
provide them with our application
in a way that they can quickly
and easily install wirelessly.
And in fact, you can do that from Xcode.
Once you've produced an
archive of your application,
you can distribute it in a way that
allows you to save it for what we
call ad hoc or enterprise deployment.
And when you do this,
you'll be prompted to provide some
additional information to Xcode,
and it can produce one of these
installer manifests for you.
The things you'll need are a
URL where you plan to host the
.IPA file that Xcode will save out,
as well as the title of your app.
And then you can give it some
artwork or some additional text,
and it'll show that when it provides
the installer UI on the device.
And once you save this out,
Xcode will give you not only your IPA,
but a property list file
that's pretty short.
It looks something like this.
And for those of you who like
to view your property list
in the source code editor,
it would look like this.
And if you were to host this on
a website alongside the .IPA,
if you browse to it in Safari,
and your application-- and your device,
rather-- is listed in the provisioning
profile for your application,
your device will offer to install it.
It's great.
So now, I think I'm going to
show you how to do that.
So I'm going to go ahead and close
this because I'm working on an iOS app,
and I'm hoping Yevgeny hasn't touched it.
So I have a copy of it here,
and I'm going to go ahead and open it.
And since I know that you really
don't want to see me type,
I've gone ahead and written out some
text already that I'm going to use.
Specifically, if I take a look at my
project in the project editor,
I'm taking advantage of a feature
of Xcode called Configurations.
I've created a new configuration
for my application called a beta.
And I did so by just
hitting this plus button.
And what I would like to do is
tell Xcode that when I'm building
for the beta configuration,
I want to take certain
things into account,
and those things are
build system settings.
So I've defined those in my target.
And if I go to the Build Settings Editor,
I'm gonna hide this inspector,
go to the bottom,
you can see I've defined two build
settings in the User Defined section,
one of which is recipe_bundle_id_suffix,
because build systems
really like underbars.
And I've provided a value for that
only for the beta configuration,
which is .beta,
And this is going to allow
me to provide the Xcode build
system the context that says,
when this string appears in something
that we're going to preprocess,
replace it with .beta.
And similarly,
I specified one for my recipe icon name.
And in my project, I actually have
Two icons, one of which is recipe,
and one of which is recipe beta.
So where we're going to use
these build settings is in
our Applications Info.plist.
So for the bundle identifier,
I've actually--
At the end of the string,
appended RecipeBundleID suffix.
And for our icon,
I've specified recipe icon name suffix.
Now, when I build my application as
normal for debug or release,
those two build settings are going
to evaluate to an empty string
and everything will be left alone.
But when I build it for the beta setting,
they'll actually be real values.
So I'm going to go ahead and
actually build my application for the
simulator in its normal configuration
to show you what it looks like,
just to, you know,
make sure there's no tricks here.
Here's the app,
and if I go to the home screen,
there it is.
As you can see,
it's the standard application,
standard icon.
So what I'd like to do now is to
actually provide the iPhone simulator
the beta configuration of it.
So to do that,
I'm going to manage my schemes,
and I'll actually duplicate
this recipe scheme.
And what I want to do is tell it,
when I'm building,
use the beta configuration.
And similarly,
I want to provide this to my customers.
So when I'm archiving,
use the beta configuration.
I'll hit OK.
And now I'm going to run
again on the iPhone simulator.
My application is still running,
so I'll stop that.
And now I'll run again
on the iPhone simulator.
And here we are.
Here's the application.
If I hit the Home button, you can see,
there it is alongside
our regular version.
It has the new icon.
Great.
So now I want to provide
it to my customers.
So I'm going to archive this application,
but before I do that,
I want to actually provide
them with a device version,
so I'll choose that as our active device.
And now I'll archive the application.
Now Xcode is going to show me this
inside of the Xcode Organizer.
And I can distribute it in the same
fashion as we've been seeing all day.
But I can distribute it for
enterprise or ad hoc deployment.
And if I choose that,
Xcode asks me for a
code-signing identity.
My secret alias is
actually Johnny Appleseed,
so I'll hit Next.
And when it's done,
it's going to prompt me
to save this somewhere.
And I'm going to choose this Save for
Enterprise Distribution flag.
And at this point,
I'm going to tell Xcode where
my IPA is going to be hosted.
Since those recipes look
pretty good naturally,
this will be right on apple.com.
Typing on stage is a lot
harder than it might seem.
Interesting fact about WWDC.
And then I'll give it a title.
So now I've chosen to save out
an IPA of my app to my desktop
along with this install manifest,
which is a property list that
contains the URL to the IPA.
So I'll go ahead and save that.
And if I go back to Finder
and take a look on my desktop,
there's the IPA and
there's the property list.
And I'll open that
next code for a second,
and you can just see
what its contents are.
And if I put this property
list on a web server,
as I said,
and browse through it with the device,
it'll prompt me to install.
I'm going to go ahead and close that.
Now we'll switch back to slides.
So let's talk about
what we went over today.
First, how to distribute your application
outside of the App Store in a way
that ensures that it's available to
your customers running Mountain Lion,
as well as providing them with a sense
of security and confidence in the quality
of your application and its security.
We also talked about how to take
advantage of technologies available
through the Mac App Store and how
to submit your application to the
Mac App Store and the iOS App Store.
And in iOS,
we talked about how to provide your
customers with a pre-release copy
of your application distributed
ad hoc in the form of a beta,
as well as some new features in
the App Store in the form of deltas
and how to make sure that your
delta is as small as possible.
For more information, please feel free to
contact Michael Jurowicz,
our evangelist.
You've probably seen
him around this week.
He's the guy in the suit
with the big camera.
There's also some documentation
in the form of the Tools Workflow
Guides for Mac and for iOS.
And if you have any questions,
we're available on the dev forums.
If you're interested in the
OSX application sandbox or taking
advantage of Gatekeeper and Developer ID,
there were some sessions about
that earlier in the week.
It'll be available on video.
There's also a session on how to take
advantage of some new features in
iTunes Connect for those of you managing
a lot of in-app purchase content.
Thank you.